---
title: Welcome to youread.me!
date: 2024-05-25 22:36:38 +0800
categories: [blog]
tags: [blog, introduction]
author: NicholasChua
description: An introduction to youread.me
---

# Welcome!

## Introduction
Hello and welcome to youread.me‽ I'm your host, Nicholas Chua, and I'm excited to have you here. At the time of writing, I'm a third-year Information Security Undergraduate student at Singapore Institute of Technology, and I have worked for 3 years full-time in the industry as a System Administrator. I'm thrilled to share my journey, insights, and projects with you through this blog.

## Why "youread.me"?
The name "youread.me" is a play on the word "readme," which is a file that contains information about other files in a directory or archive. I chose this name because I want this blog to be a place where you can read about my thoughts, experiences, and projects. The interrobang (‽) at the end recognizes the two distinct ways "read" can be pronounced, creating both a question that invites one to read, and an exclamation that acknowledges the reader's choice to do so.

## Purpose
As both a student and a professional in the tech industry, I've had the opportunity to work on a wide range of projects and learn from some amazing people. I started this blog as a way to document my journey and hope to pay my learning forward to my viewers. No matter where you are in your journey, I hope my views can broaden your perspective and inspire you to continue learning.

## Content Plan
Here's what you can expect from my blog:
- **Personal Projects**: Write-ups on my personal projects and experiments.
- **Personal Experiences**: Stories and lessons from my own career and educational journey.
- **Tech Reviews**: Reviews of tech products and services that have particularly changed my life.
- **Industry Insights**: My thoughts on the latest trends and news in the tech industry.
- **Life Updates**: Although I am a rather private person, I may rarely share some personal updates and goals I set for myself.

## Engagement
I'm always open to connecting with my readers, so feel free to reach out to me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaschua-infosec) or [GitHub](https://www.github.com/NicholasChua). I'm also open to feedback, so if you have any suggestions or comments, please let me know.

## Conclusion
Thank you for visiting my blog! Stay tuned for more posts, and I look forward to embarking on this journey with you.

```bash
exit
```

---

[Return to Top](#welcome)