---
title: Homelab Plans 2024
date: 2024-09-22 17:26:36 +08:00
categories: [technical]
tags: [homelab, server, plans]
author: NicholasChua
description: Planning the next steps for my homelab as of 2024
---

# Homelab Plans 2024

## Introduction

After a few months of running my homelab of a virtualized router and a few network-related services (VPN, DNS), I believe it is time to expand my homelab to include more services and applications. This post will outline the plans for my homelab for the next year.

## Current Setup

My current homelab setup consists of the following:

- **Router**: OPNSense running on a virtual machine
- **Virtualization Platform**: Proxmox VE on [my router appliance]({% link _posts/2024-07-24-opnsense-software-router.md %})
- **DNS**: Pi-hole running in an LXC container
- **Media Server**: Jellyfin running in a Raspberry Pi 4
- **VPN**: WireGuard running within OPNSense

## Future Plans

As I expand my homelab, I intend to include open-source solutions where possible. I also plan to document my journey in setting up these services. Here are some of the services I plan to include in my homelab:

### 1. Git Server

I plan to take an infrastructure-as-code approach to managing my homelab, and that means version-controlling my configurations. I plan to set up a Git server to host my Ansible playbooks, Docker Compose files, and other configuration files. As of now, I am considering using Gitea.

### 2. XDR and SIEM

I plan to setup an XDR (Extended Detection and Response) and SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) solution to practice threat hunting and incident response. I am considering using Wazuh, an open-source XDR and SIEM solution.

### 3. CI/CD Pipeline

To further assist in orchestrating my homelab, I plan to extend my Git server to include a CI/CD pipeline. This will allow me to take advantage of automated testing and deployment of my configurations.

### 4. Reverse Proxy

With the addition of more services, I plan to set up a reverse proxy to manage the routing of traffic to the appropriate services. I am considering using Traefik or Nginx for this purpose.

### 5. Smart Home Integration

I plan to purchase some smart home devices next year and integrate them into my homelab. These will primarily be lighting solutions for now. I am considering using Home Assistant for this purpose.

### 6. Monitoring and Alerting

To keep an eye on the health of my homelab, I plan to set up monitoring and alerting. I am considering using Prometheus and Grafana for monitoring, and Alertmanager for alerting.

## Hardware Upgrades

With the addition of more services, I may need to upgrade my hardware. This would probably mean getting a new server, so I can have my current server dedicated to network-related services. The new server would also give me room to experiment with ideas such as clustering and high availability, although that would be less of a concern if the Git server and CI/CD pipeline are set up, as configurations can be easily redeployed.

## Conclusion

My homelab journey may be just beginning, but I am excited to see where it goes. I hope I can learn more about the services I plan to set up, and that I can share my experiences with you. I will be documenting my journey in setting up these services, so stay tuned for more posts!

## What's Next?

From here on out, I will no longer have a dedicated section for What's Next. I have some other non-technical posts planned, and they will be interspersed with the technical posts focusing on my homelab. Stay tuned for more!

```bash
nicholaschua@youread.me:~$ exit
logout
```
{: .nolineno }
{: file="nicholaschua@youread.me: ~" }

## References

1. [Gitea][1]
2. [Wazuh][2]
3. [Traefik][3]
4. [Nginx][4]
5. [Home Assistant][5]
6. [Prometheus][6]
7. [Grafana][7]
8. [Alertmanager][8]

[1]: https://gitea.io/en-us/
[2]: https://wazuh.com/
[3]: https://traefik.io/
[4]: https://nginx.org/en/
[5]: https://www.home-assistant.io/
[6]: https://prometheus.io/
[7]: https://grafana.com/
[8]: https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/

---
[Return to Top](#homelab-plans-2024)