---
title: Snipe-IT Software Review
date: 2025-04-06 23:12:44 +08:00
categories: [review]
tags: [snipe-it, asset management]
author: NicholasChua
description: A review of Snipe-IT 8.0.4, an open-source asset management software
---

# Snipe-IT Software Review

## Disclaimer

As made clear in my [About]({% link _tabs/about.md %}) page, I do not do affiliate marketing or advertising. All products reviewed are either FOSS or purchased by me and all opinions are my own. I hate to see biased reviews as much as you do.

## Introduction

I have been using [Snipe-IT][1] for the past month and I wanted to share my thoughts on the software. Snipe-IT is an open-source asset management software that allows you to track your assets, manage your inventory, and keep track of your licenses. It is a web-based application that can be self-hosted or used as a SaaS solution.

## Product Overview

Snipe-IT is primarily a web based asset management software that allows you to track your assets, manage your inventory, and keep track of your licenses. Snipe-IT is a free and open-source web application that is built to be easy to use, customizable, and scalable. It is primarily aimed at businesses, but it's also a great solution for personal use, especially for homelabbers like myself.

#### Asset Management

The primary draw of Snipe-IT is its asset management capabilities. I can easily add, edit, and delete assets from the web interface or API. I can also assign assets to users, track their location, and keep track of their status. I can also add custom fields to assets, which is useful for tracking additional information that is not included in the default fields.

#### License Management

Although I do not have many licenses to track, Snipe-IT does offer great license management capabilties. Much like asset management, I can easily add, edit, and delete licenses from the web interface or API. 

Important information such as the license key, expiration date, and number of activations can be tracked. I can also assign licenses easily, which is useful for tracking software licenses that are in use.

#### Reporting

Although more suitable for business rather than personal use, Snipe-IT does offer a variety of reports that can be generated, and even customized reports that give granular control over the data that is displayed. Where it may lag behind is historical tracking, as the report generated is a snapshot of the current data.

## Environment

This software was tested on the following environment:
- **OS**: Debian 12

## Why I Use It

Being free and open-source, Snipe-IT is a great platform for tracking assets, which is useful for any homelabber. I only have a few devices now, but I can see myself making much more use of Snipe-IT in the future as my homelab grows. I like the fact that Snipe-IT is self-hosted, which means I have full control over my data and can customize it to my needs. I also like the fact that Snipe-IT is FOSS, which means I know that I am not being tracked or sold to advertisers.

## Conclusion

I have been using Snipe-IT for the past month and I am very happy with it. It is a great asset management software that is easy to use and has a lot of features. I would recommend it to anyone who is looking for an asset management solution, whether it be for personal or business use. I have not encountered any issues with it so far, and I am looking forward to using it more in the future.

```bash
nicholaschua@youread.me:~$ exit
logout
```
{: .nolineno }
{: file="nicholaschua@youread.me: ~" }

## References

1. [Snipe-IT][1]

[1]: https://snipeitapp.com/

---
[Return to Top](#snipe-it-software-review)